The Scttr program is a Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) alternative to calculating resonant inelastic X-ray scattering spectra from results obtainable from standard quantum chemical software. Its input is a simple interface that reads energy eigenvalues and transition moments from either a binary or text file, and uses that information to calculate the experimentally observed spectrum obtained from performing resonant inelastic x-ray scattering (RIXS) experiments. As of currently (version 1.55), the program does this without taking destructive interference between scattering channels into account, as can be see in how the Kramers-Heisenberg formula is used in the program (see M. Lundberg et. al. 2013 for an example of how it is used and defined mathematically, and the calc_spec() function for the implementation). To do this, the user is provided with a well, documented command line interface giving the user a variety of options (spectral resolution, transition screening parameters etc.) to optimize the calculation time for a given input file.



CMake builds the makefile subsequently used to generate the binary for the program. Build options currently limited to building a "Release" type binary (the default), or a "Debug" type binary. These options are chosen through the DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE parameter, which is provided by the user from command line:

cmake . -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
or ..
cmake . -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug

These flags modify what flags are provided to the GCC compiler (the only compiler currently supported). The Debug option provides GCC with flags used to generate a binary suitable for debugging the program with Valgrind (see http://valgrind.org/) or the The Gnu Project Debugger (GDB, see https://www.gnu.org/software/gdb/), while the Release option compiles the program with o3 optimization (see the GCC manual for details https://gcc.gnu.org/).

After building the make files (in or out of source), use make to build the program and view the Doxygen documentation contained in the /doc directory of build root.
